README.md, before:


## todo list

### Issues after 1st evaluations

### Notes
- [builtin] `cd -` isn't required to do as the subject says: "cd with only a relative or absolute path" and the `-` is an operand.
- [builtin] `exit 56 4575` should not exit and show error message `too many arguments`. the exit code should be 1

### complete issues after 1st evaluations
- ~~[buitin] handle `cd --` commands~~
- ~~[parsing] if ```export c='ls -la'``` ```$c``` should exec the same as ```ls -a```~~ We decided not to handle this and keep it as the same as zsh
- ~~[expansion] $ only should print it~~
- ~~[expansion] ```echo $``` and ```echo "$"``` should output a $~~
- ~~[builtin] echo -n -nnn hola -nnnn shold only output "hola -nnnn". It should ignore multiple -n or -nnnnnnnn flags in the arguments.~~
- ~~[LEAK] there is raw string not freed in bi_add_var if the value is just the id (ie. doesn't update anything).~~
- ~~[parsing] if ```export a='ls'``` and then ```export b='-a'```, then ```$a $b``` should exec the same as ```ls -a```~~
- ~~[builtin] cd should check the return value of chdir and print err message if the dir is no longer available (ex. deleted)~~
- ~~[builtin] pwd/cd should update env (OLDPWD and PWD)~~
- ~~[builtin] "exit +" and "exit 465465465432132132132132135468798795654" should be error~~
- ~~[builtin] leaks in bi_add_var, need to free arg_id if it is just updating value.~~
- ~~[exec] `echo yo | << t cat > out1 | << T cat > out2` -> is leaking~~
- ~~[LEAK] pwd | env | echo - leaks memory when called as the first command (ex: `env | << t cat`)~~
- ~~[LEAK] pwd | < Makefile echo leaks, but pwd | echo doesnt leak -> when a builtin prints something leaks something~~
- ~~[MAJOR] dont create pipes if its the last exec command!~~
- ~~[signal] when doing an exec the CTL+\ should do core dump with exit code of 131.~~
- ~~[parsing] change exit code to 2 when a parsing error happens~~
- ~~[MAJOR] fix leaks whenever the child in exec early exits, should free all with ms_free_all (ctx)~~
- ~~[MAJOR] Check everything with the valgring flag --show-leak-kinds=all~~
- ~~[expansion] $sdfsdf shouldnt print anything~~
- ~~[parsing] echo $"USER" should only print "USER" without "$"~~
- ~~[Token] input tab (ctl + v + tab), ":", and "!" should do nothing, but currently shows command not found~~
- ~~[Token] `echo "hello"				world` should print: "hello world" so just like a space~~
- ~~[Token] intput "/" or "/////" or "/.." or "/." the error message should be "Is a directory" and exit code should be 126. Now is "command not found" with exit code 127.~~
- ~~[expansion] env expansion is separated by spaces. so `export TEST2='"so is this the first arg" wow third arg'` becomes: `["so] [is] [this] [the] [first] [arg"] [wow] [third] [arg]` ||| splits arguments by bash's current IFS (to see them `printf '%q\n' "$IFS"` so most likely -> [ \t\n])~~ -> deciced to not handle it
- ~~[parsing] intput "\" is not handled. (ex. echo \n yo should output "n yo", but now is "\n yo")~~ -> not required by subject
- ~~[Token] intput "&", "&&" should give exit code of 2, but now is 127. "&" should also be considered as meta character~~ -> not required by subject / not handled knowingly
- ~~[MAJOR] parsing export "" should be error invalid identifier but now there is no error message. now the argument "" is not an empty string but null~~
- ~~[LEAK] there is raw string not freed in bi_add_var if the value is just the id (ie. doesn't update anything).~~
- ~~[CRASH] if ```export a='$a'``` and ```echo $a```, it will be in an infinite loop~~
- ~~[Makefile] Added dependency to headers in each file during compilation~~
- ~~[parsing] echo $"USER" should only print "USER" without "$"~~ -> decided to keep current behavior to be more consistent

### old finished issues
- ~~[MAJOR] norme~~
- ~~[heredoc] make heredoc in the temporary folder '/tmp/'~~
- ~~[builtin] fix error code when missing file is input in builtins~~
- ~~[builtin] exit > out1 should print exit in the terminal and shouldnt redirect~~
- ~~[exec] if permission is denied return exit code `126` (I checked in my bash-5.2, the permission denied has the exit code of 1. Let's check again in the cluster environment) -> it does have an exit code of 1, my bad~~
- ~~[exec] fix problem where if you CTRL-C from a command then the next commands echo $? value is still going to be the ctrl-c (130) code.~~
- ~~[heredoc] check leaks for ctrl-c heredoc~~
- ~~[parser] handle the case where the user inputs: `| cat`~~
- ~~[signal] cat: change the signals just after the fork (to only print '\n' to stderr) and after the child has exit, we change them back to the default state.~~
- ~~[builtin] the exit code of exit is always 13, but should be 2 or according to the number given.~~
- ~~[signal] signal handling (ctrl-\ | ctrl-c | ctrl-d)~~
- ~~[exec] command: `ls | cat | cat > out1 > out2 -e | cat | cat > out3` should behave like bash but doesnt (pipe issue)~~
- ~~[exec] fix open fd: `ls | jksdlf | cat Makefile | < ksdjfl cat`~~
- ~~[builtin] exit 5 and exit generally leaks~~
- ~~[exec] change exec file opening in child process~~
- ~~[exec] print error on command not found~~
- ~~[MAJOR][exec] rework file open and close handling.~~
	- ~~Need to check if arguments work~~
	- ~~Rework builtin handling in exec~~
- ~~[builtin] unset $HOME and do 'cd', also if '$HOME' is NULL should error too.~~
- ~~echo $? -> done~~
- ~~export ?=hello_world or 123=wow -> should error. first char should be only alphabetical or '\_', and anything that follows should be alphanumerical with '\_' as an exception.~~
- ~~fix export print~~
- ~~solved unset segfault issue~~
- ~~[builtin] exit shall print "exit" on STDOUT (before error message)~~
- ~~[builtin] unset "ZZC=" should not remove the env variable of "ZZC=asdf". Should reference the whole string not the id parsed from string.~~
- ~~[builtin] export "" should be error, but currently it will add "" as id to env.~~
- ~~[builtin] export "ZZC" if "ZZC=abc" already existed, it shall not replace the current value.~~
- ~~[builtin] the exit code of exit is always 13, but should be 2 or according to the number given.~~
- ~~[prompt] if "cat" and use ^C, there will be two promts, but should be just one prompt~~
- ~~[display] `< Makefile a | a2 | a3 | a4 | a5 | a6 > outfile` is printed in a disorderly manner~~
- ~~[exec] Different behaviour of the following cmd: "< Makefile << here cat | wc -l << there > out3 | echo yo". No calls for second here_doc and the 3rd cmd is done first.~~
- ~~[heredoc] Refactor and initiate heredoc before exec~~
- ~~[heredoc] currently the here_doc fails to unlink itself~~
- ~~[builtin] `exit -100` and `exit +100` should work~~


#### Notes for cd and pwd

1. everytime you cd somewhere, it always replace the env OLDPWD with the current PWD. and replace PWD with the new directory locatioin.
2. missing err message of ```chdir: error retrieving current directory: getcwd: cannot access parent directories: No such file or directory``` if cd from a dir that is removed.

#### Notes for env expansion

1. try out with random '$' like: "lol$PATH $$ $ $USER"
- single '$' followed by other '$' env variables might not work currently

Commit message:

feat: added bi_exit rules so that if there are multiple arguments and the first one is valid number, it won't exit

README.md, after:


## todo list

### Issues after 1st evaluations

### Notes
- [builtin] `cd -` isn't required to do as the subject says: "cd with only a relative or absolute path" and the `-` is an operand.

### complete issues after 1st evaluations
- ~~[builtin] `exit 56 4575` should not exit and show error message `too many arguments`. the exit code should be 1. If there are multiple arguments and the first on is valid number, it shall be too many arguments error.~~
- ~~[buitin] handle `cd --` commands~~
- ~~[parsing] if ```export c='ls -la'``` ```$c``` should exec the same as ```ls -a```~~ We decided not to handle this and keep it as the same as zsh
- ~~[expansion] $ only should print it~~
- ~~[expansion] ```echo $``` and ```echo "$"``` should output a $~~
- ~~[builtin] echo -n -nnn hola -nnnn shold only output "hola -nnnn". It should ignore multiple -n or -nnnnnnnn flags in the arguments.~~
- ~~[LEAK] there is raw string not freed in bi_add_var if the value is just the id (ie. doesn't update anything).~~
- ~~[parsing] if ```export a='ls'``` and then ```export b='-a'```, then ```$a $b``` should exec the same as ```ls -a```~~
- ~~[builtin] cd should check the return value of chdir and print err message if the dir is no longer available (ex. deleted)~~
- ~~[builtin] pwd/cd should update env (OLDPWD and PWD)~~
- ~~[builtin] "exit +" and "exit 465465465432132132132132135468798795654" should be error~~
- ~~[builtin] leaks in bi_add_var, need to free arg_id if it is just updating value.~~
- ~~[exec] `echo yo | << t cat > out1 | << T cat > out2` -> is leaking~~
- ~~[LEAK] pwd | env | echo - leaks memory when called as the first command (ex: `env | << t cat`)~~
- ~~[LEAK] pwd | < Makefile echo leaks, but pwd | echo doesnt leak -> when a builtin prints something leaks something~~
- ~~[MAJOR] dont create pipes if its the last exec command!~~
- ~~[signal] when doing an exec the CTL+\ should do core dump with exit code of 131.~~
- ~~[parsing] change exit code to 2 when a parsing error happens~~
- ~~[MAJOR] fix leaks whenever the child in exec early exits, should free all with ms_free_all (ctx)~~
- ~~[MAJOR] Check everything with the valgring flag --show-leak-kinds=all~~
- ~~[expansion] $sdfsdf shouldnt print anything~~
- ~~[parsing] echo $"USER" should only print "USER" without "$"~~
- ~~[Token] input tab (ctl + v + tab), ":", and "!" should do nothing, but currently shows command not found~~
- ~~[Token] `echo "hello"				world` should print: "hello world" so just like a space~~
- ~~[Token] intput "/" or "/////" or "/.." or "/." the error message should be "Is a directory" and exit code should be 126. Now is "command not found" with exit code 127.~~
- ~~[expansion] env expansion is separated by spaces. so `export TEST2='"so is this the first arg" wow third arg'` becomes: `["so] [is] [this] [the] [first] [arg"] [wow] [third] [arg]` ||| splits arguments by bash's current IFS (to see them `printf '%q\n' "$IFS"` so most likely -> [ \t\n])~~ -> deciced to not handle it
- ~~[parsing] intput "\" is not handled. (ex. echo \n yo should output "n yo", but now is "\n yo")~~ -> not required by subject
- ~~[Token] intput "&", "&&" should give exit code of 2, but now is 127. "&" should also be considered as meta character~~ -> not required by subject / not handled knowingly
- ~~[MAJOR] parsing export "" should be error invalid identifier but now there is no error message. now the argument "" is not an empty string but null~~
- ~~[LEAK] there is raw string not freed in bi_add_var if the value is just the id (ie. doesn't update anything).~~
- ~~[CRASH] if ```export a='$a'``` and ```echo $a```, it will be in an infinite loop~~
- ~~[Makefile] Added dependency to headers in each file during compilation~~
- ~~[parsing] echo $"USER" should only print "USER" without "$"~~ -> decided to keep current behavior to be more consistent

### old finished issues
- ~~[MAJOR] norme~~
- ~~[heredoc] make heredoc in the temporary folder '/tmp/'~~
- ~~[builtin] fix error code when missing file is input in builtins~~
- ~~[builtin] exit > out1 should print exit in the terminal and shouldnt redirect~~
- ~~[exec] if permission is denied return exit code `126` (I checked in my bash-5.2, the permission denied has the exit code of 1. Let's check again in the cluster environment) -> it does have an exit code of 1, my bad~~
- ~~[exec] fix problem where if you CTRL-C from a command then the next commands echo $? value is still going to be the ctrl-c (130) code.~~
- ~~[heredoc] check leaks for ctrl-c heredoc~~
- ~~[parser] handle the case where the user inputs: `| cat`~~
- ~~[signal] cat: change the signals just after the fork (to only print '\n' to stderr) and after the child has exit, we change them back to the default state.~~
- ~~[builtin] the exit code of exit is always 13, but should be 2 or according to the number given.~~
- ~~[signal] signal handling (ctrl-\ | ctrl-c | ctrl-d)~~
- ~~[exec] command: `ls | cat | cat > out1 > out2 -e | cat | cat > out3` should behave like bash but doesnt (pipe issue)~~
- ~~[exec] fix open fd: `ls | jksdlf | cat Makefile | < ksdjfl cat`~~
- ~~[builtin] exit 5 and exit generally leaks~~
- ~~[exec] change exec file opening in child process~~
- ~~[exec] print error on command not found~~
- ~~[MAJOR][exec] rework file open and close handling.~~
	- ~~Need to check if arguments work~~
	- ~~Rework builtin handling in exec~~
- ~~[builtin] unset $HOME and do 'cd', also if '$HOME' is NULL should error too.~~
- ~~echo $? -> done~~
- ~~export ?=hello_world or 123=wow -> should error. first char should be only alphabetical or '\_', and anything that follows should be alphanumerical with '\_' as an exception.~~
- ~~fix export print~~
- ~~solved unset segfault issue~~
- ~~[builtin] exit shall print "exit" on STDOUT (before error message)~~
- ~~[builtin] unset "ZZC=" should not remove the env variable of "ZZC=asdf". Should reference the whole string not the id parsed from string.~~
- ~~[builtin] export "" should be error, but currently it will add "" as id to env.~~
- ~~[builtin] export "ZZC" if "ZZC=abc" already existed, it shall not replace the current value.~~
- ~~[builtin] the exit code of exit is always 13, but should be 2 or according to the number given.~~
- ~~[prompt] if "cat" and use ^C, there will be two promts, but should be just one prompt~~
- ~~[display] `< Makefile a | a2 | a3 | a4 | a5 | a6 > outfile` is printed in a disorderly manner~~
- ~~[exec] Different behaviour of the following cmd: "< Makefile << here cat | wc -l << there > out3 | echo yo". No calls for second here_doc and the 3rd cmd is done first.~~
- ~~[heredoc] Refactor and initiate heredoc before exec~~
- ~~[heredoc] currently the here_doc fails to unlink itself~~
- ~~[builtin] `exit -100` and `exit +100` should work~~


#### Notes for cd and pwd

1. everytime you cd somewhere, it always replace the env OLDPWD with the current PWD. and replace PWD with the new directory locatioin.
2. missing err message of ```chdir: error retrieving current directory: getcwd: cannot access parent directories: No such file or directory``` if cd from a dir that is removed.

#### Notes for env expansion

1. try out with random '$' like: "lol$PATH $$ $ $USER"
- single '$' followed by other '$' env variables might not work currently
